---
layout: post
title: John Marston and Others
published: true
---

Listening to: The sound of Gastown.

Been playing plenty of The Last of Us (spoilers ahead!). It's been an emotional and thrilling experience so far. I'm not normally a horror fan but I've been having fun with the zombie sections, however one issue I have is that the Bloaters really muck up the pacing. Most of the game is quite quick and suspenseful, with set pieces lasting ~5 minutes tops but the Bloaters, if you don't have any fire weapons, force you to run around trying to shoot them in the back for like 10 minutes.

I've been thinking back recently to the last big story-driven game I played: Red Dead Redemption, whose writing never really gripped me. For one thing, the protagonist is remains completely static throughout the game. John Marston hits the same note for the entire game: "I'm trying to put this life of killing behind me and go back to my family", he intones over and over (while murdering hundreds of people). Even his relationships with the secondary characters are static - at least on his part, though Bonnie does seem to develop an unrequited crush. Mr. Marston is just a way for the player to experience the game world and a vehicle to progress the plot - not a character in his own right. I'm reminded of Red Letter Media's test of character quality: "describe the character without referring to what they look like or what they do." John Marston is .... honorable? Except he's not, he's ruthless and he's a killer. Except not really, because he's a family man now. He's got a checkered past, I suppose. Which, as character backgrounds go, is not too original. Now, it's true that a lot of these qualities are dependent on the player's actions. My John Marston might slaughter a whole camp full of innocent travellers. Your John Marston might give them beef jerky. But the player's actions are never really reflected by the world, or even by your own character. Don't get me wrong, I love making up my own stories, and in games like Skyrim or Fallout, I often think up backgrounds and motivations for my character. But in RDR you don't have the freedom of a blank slate, nor do you have the tailored characterization you would get in a more linear game. I suppose it just bugs me how little attention is paid to character progression in video games. When it does happen, it's often arbitrary and binary - Bioshock's ending comes to mind.
 
 Anyways my point is that The Last of Us does a better job. You can see the relationship between Joel and Ellie progressing and changing over the course of the game. As it does so, both characters deal with their personal fears and burdens. It's standard storytelling, really, but it's something not too common to big-budget video games, especially when paired with good gameplay.
