---
published: true
layout: post
title: "Push It!"
image: madscientist.jpg
---

Just a few minutes ago I pushed the latest build of the Stack Haus Buzzer into production from the staging app. While still a very simple app, the Buzzer has grown significantly in complexity. I added an out-of-office function for visitors that drop by outside of normal business hours. It checks to see if there are any non-default numbers on the list, and calls those numbers if they exist. However, if there are only default numbers (Boris or Lana's numbers, most likely) on the list, it doesn't call them and instead plays an automated message. The reason for this is so that Boris and Lana can keep their numbers on the list at all times without having to worry about getting called at weird hours. 

I also set up a testing function that uses Twilio to call the buzzer number and see if everything is working properly. This way I don't have to keep asking people to call and test the app with their phones. Another big headache solver was the realization that I could store environment variables in a .env file and use foreman to test the app instead of just running "ruby stackhausbuzzer.rb". You see, I had wanted to use Heroku's config vars to store my enviromental variables, since they contained some sensitive information. *However* Heroku's config vars are not stored locally. So I needed some way to access these variables when I'm testing locally, and previously I had been defining all the env. variables I needed in an env.rb file and then just require-ing that file. Which sucked because each time I obviously couldn't push the env.rb file to Heroku or GitHub (because then it would be public!). So I would have to comment out the line in the main stackhausbuzzer.rb file that required env.rb each time I pushed to Heroku. Now it's okay, but every time I did it before I'd think, "There must be a better way to do this!"- and turns out there was. 
